---
title: Home
---

# The Polymath Academy 

### Dedicated to learning, not education.

Collegiate education has become a controversial topic in US politics, and as one who attended higher education for 8 years, attempted a PhD in STEM, and has taught many students with varying levels of enthusiasm, I can certainly understand why. At its best, a college education should hypothetically produce well-rounded, capable individuals with a specialization in a particular (or many) fields. This should ideally increase the student's ability to find employment, as they should be distinguished from their peers, and allows employers to quickly discriminate amongst potential candidates by using the degree they've achieved as a useful heuristic. However, at its worst, college is a money sink, fuelled by debt and the future earnings of those who are attending it, while churning out identical, unremarkable cogs that struggle to find a corporate machine in which to spin, with little to no hope of paying back the debt they have incurred. This leads to students that further attempt to distinguish themselves by attending post-graduate education. This cycle of endless "credentials peacocking" causes degree inflation, and increases time spent in education, rather than in the work force. Even worse, this desire to attend higher education is a product of an older generation's "brilliant" idea that students to take on more education will result in the ability for the younger generation to secure employment. Unfortunately, this does not work, as when everyone does something, nobody does, and only the absence of the behavior becomes noticeable.  A prime example in most modern countries is the use of deodorant: unnoticeable when used, but you can definitely tell when someone didn't (especially at the gym).

I've spoken to many students as a teaching assistant at a top university in the US; unfortunately, many of them hate attending class. When I asked my students why, many repeat variations on the same response: "I don't understand why I need to take chemistry, when will the octet rule, or electron shell configurations, be relevant to my daily life or career?". As much as I hate the question, I completely understand the sentiment. I've been doing research and publishing papers in analytical chemistry for 8 years now. I've never used any of that information in my professional career, so why are nursing students or mechanical engineers expected to know it? I obviously value knowledge and education, but I believe there exists a limit to how much esoteric, unapplicable information that a person can be exposed to before they simply stop caring. For many, this happens in middle or high school. For many others, it happens in college, or graduate school. Somehow, I made it to the cusp of earning those prestigious three letters "PhD", before I decided that enough was enough (but for other reasons that I may discuss in a later post). I think that making education applicable is the key to making it engaging, and we shouldn't be burdening students with high interest debt for the rest of their lives to do it.

Luckily for me, and for anyone reading this, there is an amazing resource that contains the sum-total of human knowledge that is *almost entirely free* and accessible to us (although much of the latest information is unfortunately locked behind pay-walls...something else I'll discuss later). For those of you still wondering, I'm referring to the Internet. There also exists, however, an endless deluge of the *dankest* memes, adorable cat videos, and people trying to sell you the opportunity to "be your own boss from home and on the go with (insert MLM here)". However, for those of us with focus, drive, determination, and the self-control to limit our desires to dab on h8rs, a world class education is always available, both in our pockets and at our fingertips. In other words, the best education available in the history of the world is there for the un-distractable, and (even better) it can and should be applicable to our interests.

So where do I fit into all of this? Me, the writer? Well, as someone who is in the process of completely throwing out 8 years of professional chemistry experience to start a job in tech (just got hired!), and who has hobbies ranging from programming, fencing, tennis, wood-working, 3D printing, and more, it is my hope to guide others with similar interests in a path to knowledge and self mastery, by sharing my experiences along the way. To be honest, I have a long way to go; I'll be starting with my foray into professional computer science, and expanding to a wide variety of other topics.  For those of you who are more experienced, or have differing experiences, I would love to learn from you as well, and encourage you to mentor others both in person and online. Perhaps everyone who wants to can become a polymath, and make a difference in their own lives, and the lives of those around them.

__

John

<hr/>

### Blog
